# Can ASD be predicted given some behavioral and individual features?
## Introduction  
There are over 100,000 children who have been diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Children on the ASD spectrum tend to show social interaction difficulties as well as speech and language problem.  Parents of children on ASD spectrum is faced with the challenge of dealing with the beahiour and also providing adequate support for the children to help them improve in the aspect of child development impacted by ASD.  
Children with potential ASD shows some behavioral signs including avoiding eye contact, delayed speech, non-flexibility (getting really upset with change of routine), being obsessed with one toy, having trouble understanding other people’s feelings, struggling with jokes or sarcasm, repetitive behavior. This is not an exhaustive list of the signs of ASD in toddlers.
ASD diagnosis commences with parents of the child completing a Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (M-CHAT). It is an early test for children between 16-30 months. However, this is not a proper diagnosis but could points to whether the child could develop ASD or not. Early detection of ASD is crucial as early intervention significantly improves the child’s condition. Children with ASD could get help from developmental pediatrician, occupational therapist, speech therapist and educational psychologist. It should be noted that confirmatory ASD diagnosis is usually delayed till a child is about 4-5 years. However, early prediction of the possibility of a child having ASD will significantly improve the child’s behavior, as appropriate support will be provided early.

